## LaTeX Paper Template

This is Max's LaTeX paper template.

 - `paper.tex` is the main document.
 - The `fig` directory contains all figures as individual TeX files. Most importantly, figures and tables can be compiled separately, which is much faster.
 - The `data` directory contains all data files, i.e. TeX files that contain plot lines, define commands for some key statistics, etc. This often is just a symlink to your "research code" (a hodgepodge of code, jupyter notebooks, and .tex files generated by them). The idea is that you re-run your analysis, which updates the data files, which automatically updates your paper.
 - `publish.py` is a Python script that copies your paper to `dist/`, copies over all files that are actually included, strips all TeX comments, and verifies that the artifact compiled from that is a pixel-perfect copy.


### Why do you do X?

#### `paper.tex`

```latex
% !TeX TXS-program:compile = txs:///pdflatex/[--shell-escape]
```

This magic comment tells TeXstudio (and some other editors) to run pdflatex with `--shell-escape`, which is necessary for some packages. Having this here doesn't require everyone to reconfigure their editor.

```latex
\documentclass[sigconf,nonacm]{acmart}
```

Replace this with the document style wanted by your publication venue.

```latex
\usepackage{standalone}
```

This template uses the [standalone](https://ctan.org/pkg/standalone) package to include figures from separate files. You probably want to read the documentation at some point, it's really excellent. In a nutshell, `standalone` redefines the `\input` command, which now swallows the preamble of each subdocument. This allows subdocuments to stand on their own.


```latex
\providecommand{\paperroot}{.}
```

This sets the root directory of the paper, which can be used to reference data files in figures (`\input{\paperroot/data/data.tex}`). We need this so that figures can be compiled both individually (with `..` as the root directory) and as part of the main document (with `.` as the root directory).

```latex
Column Width: \the\columnwidth

Text Width: \the\textwidth
```

This prints the single column/double column widths for your documentclass, which then need to be hardcoded in `fig/standalonefigure.cls` (see below).

#### `fig/figure.tex`

```latex
\documentclass{standalonefigure}
\begin{document}
```

Individual figures always have an empty preamble (no additional `\usepackage{}`). 
If you want to use additional packages, add them in `common.tex`, so that they are available when compiling the main document as well.


#### `fig/standalonefigure.cls`

```latex
\if@twocolumn
	\LoadClass[varwidth=483.6967pt,class=article,USenglish,oneside,twocolumn]{standalone}
\else
	\LoadClass[varwidth=236.1578pt,class=article,USenglish,oneside,twocolumn]{standalone}
\fi
```

This part hardcodes the single/double column widths for all standalone figures. **You must adjust both varwidths to match your main document's `documentclass`.**. Second, set `class=` to your main document's style and also pass all options. This ensures that your figures use the same widths and font styles when compiled individually.

Some exceptionally bad LaTeX classes require additional tweaking so that standalone templates render properly. For example, the `dgruyter_NEW` template needs a 
```
\advance\voffset6.85pt
\advance\hoffset21pt
```
